The apostle Paul
was not a man given to boasting.
But on one occasion,
he felt compelled to boast a little.
And that account is found for us
in the book of 2 Corinthians chapter 11.
Please read with me 2 Corinthians 11:23:
“Are they ministers of Christ?
“I reply like a madman,
I am more outstandingly one.”
What was the subject of Paul’s boast?
Being a minister of Christ.
And now, being a minister of Christ,
what was Paul’s focus in this boast?
He said:
“I am more outstandingly one.”
William Tyndale,
when he translated this verse,
kept the very terseness
and the clarity of the Greek
when he simply said: “I am more.”
That’s Paul’s boast.
What is he focusing on, though,
as a minister of Christ in his boast?
He said: “I have done more work.”
And now from verses 23 through 27,
he gives almost a résumé
of what happened to him because of the work
he did as a minister of Christ.
Well, how will your
properly focusing on your work
as a minister of Christ
help you to succeed in your assignments?
Let’s consider an example.
And it’s found in the book of Luke chapter 8
—Luke 8:1-3:
“Shortly afterward he [this is Christ]
“traveled from city to city
and from village to village,
“preaching and declaring the good news
of the Kingdom of God.
“And the Twelve were with him,
as were certain women
“who had been cured
of wicked spirits and sicknesses:
“Mary who was called Magdalene,
“from whom seven demons had come out;
“Joanna the wife of Chuza,
Herod’s man in charge;
“Susanna; and many other women,
who were ministering to them
from their belongings.”
A group: Christ, the Twelve,
and women
(women who ministered to the others)
—what did that mean?
Did it mean they cooked the meals,
washed the dishes, mended the clothes?
Possibly but not necessarily entirely that.
These women ministered to the others
by helping them to complete their assignment
as they went on completing
their assignment as disciples of Christ.
Notice the backgrounds of these women.
Luke mentions three.
He says they’re women who were cured
of wicked spirits and sicknesses.
Look at Mary.
“Mary,” he says,
“from whom seven demons had come out.”
He also mentions “Joanna,
the wife of Chuza, Herod’s man in charge,”
and “Susanna.”
Think of their backgrounds.
Mary—seven demons came out of her.
I wonder how that demon possession
contributed to her personality.
What about Joanna?
“Joanna,” it says “the wife of Chuza,
Herod’s man in charge.”
In other words,
Joanna lived in Herod’s palace;
she was a woman of the court.
And also Susanna
—it doesn’t say specifically much about her
other than perhaps she was
one of the women who was cured of a sickness.
What was her personality like?
How did these personalities work together?
Here’s part of the example of what
can help us to minister,
and that is to realize that when
we look through the Gospel accounts,
we never find these women
bickering or arguing among themselves
about position or prominence or place,
unlike some others in the group
that were with them.
Why?
Because these women
focused on their ministry;
they focused on their work.
They served others,
and they served each other.
And that is a powerful example
for you and for me.
Remember at Isaiah 11:6, it’s prophesied:
“The wolf will reside . . . with the lamb.”
Lions with calves
—it’s not going to be all lambs.
You will meet diverse personalities
in your assignments,
and you will have to work
with diverse personalities
just like the women did.
So, what will you do?
Remember that some of the very qualities
that make a lion or make a wolf
might be exactly the qualities
you need
to help you fulfill your assignment.
So they’re not all lambs,
but they are all our brothers and sisters.
So if Jehovah allows
a diversity of personalities
within the context of the new personality,
then so should we.
Diverse personalities
make for rich friendships.
You know, Luke wrote these words,
and he’s talking about events
that took place
around the Passover of 31 C.E.
When you think of these women,
these women were with Jesus
at Golgotha.
These women were at the tomb.
Likely these women may have been
in the upper room as well.
That tells us that these women endured
challenging circumstances.
They stuck with the Lord.
What helped them?
Look back at the verse.
Verse 2 says:
“As were certain women who had been cured
of wicked spirits and sicknesses.”
These women deeply appreciated
what Jesus had done for them.
Certainly they glorified God
because of what Jesus had done for them.
But they also
allowed their appreciation
to help them endure
—to endure in a self-sacrificing life
of ministering to others.
So stay appreciative,
and that will help you endure.
Our friends are dying;
our friends are getting sick.
Meditate on how Jehovah has blessed you.
Meditate on the little things each day,
the little gifts Jehovah gives you
—maybe it’s simply the peace
in your heart and mind this day.
Remain appreciative for that,
and that will help you endure
as a minister in your assignment.
One other thing that’s noteworthy
about these women
is that these women were not easily
thrown off by others.
Remember we said—
We talked about others, the other disciples.
When other disciples left Christ,
the women stayed.
At Golgotha, even the apostles
to a certain degree had left Christ or fled.
The women stayed.
They stood solidly on their own faith.
Brothers and sisters,
do not be thrown off easily by others.
Sometimes—and you can imagine
for these women with the disciples—
it felt like a family.
And sometimes today in families
ones choose to leave Jehovah
even at this late hour.
Stand solidly on your own faith.
Like the women,
do not be easily thrown off.
Stay with Jehovah.
These women must have made
quite an impression on Luke,
because he’s the only Gospel writer
who mentions them by name in this way.
And interestingly, Luke was
a traveling companion of Paul’s.
From about 50 C.E. in Troas,
he picked up with Paul
and started traveling with him,
and he traveled with him for years.
I wonder if they spoke together.
I wonder if they spoke about these women.
I wonder if they talked
about how important it is
to focus on the work of ministering
and not to get distracted by other things.
Or I wonder if they talked
about the value of preserving unity
by learning to work
with different personalities.
Did they talk about the power
of appreciation to endure?
We don’t know.
But what we do know is this:
When Paul was in prison in Rome,
and he wrote his letter to the Hebrews,
the congregation in Judea in Jerusalem,
Luke was with him.
And do you remember what Paul wrote
at Hebrews 6:10?
He said: “God is not unrighteous
so as to forget your work and the love
you showed for his name by ministering.”
Jehovah did not forget these women.
And Jehovah will not forget you.
May you work hard
to put into practice the things
that you have learned.
And may you be able to say
that you are more outstandingly
a minister of Christ.